2026/index.md, before:

---
layout: default_2026
---

# BriGap-3, Bridges and Gaps between Formal and Computational Linguistics

**Venue:** Université Paris Cité, [campus des Grands moulins](https://u-paris.fr/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/PlanB5_PRG_0922.pdf), Paris, France  
**Date:** July 11th, 2026  
**Event website:** [https://brigap-workshop.github.io/](https://brigap-workshop.github.io/)

_BriGap-3 is a venue for formal linguists, computational linguists, and NLP scientists to meet: what fruitful interactions can we have? How do we build upon each other’s work?_

**The event is designed with a widely inclusive submission policy so as to foster as vibrant a discussion as possible.**  
In particular, we will accept:
- **Archival submissions,** corresponding to novel and unpublished research, to be included in the event proceedings,
- **Non-archival submissions,** corresponding to work in progress and early results,
- **Dissemination submissions,** articles presented in other venues that engage with the topics of the event.

### Description
Due to the groundbreaking achievements in the LLM era, the ongoing discourse in NLP has shifted more to what can be achieved through language than studying language for its own sake, and traditional conferences are increasingly dominated by engineering-oriented work. It could thus appear that computational and formal linguistics are more than ever separate domains.
Yet, we are also witnessing a growing interest in linguistics in both explaining the successes of neural models and uncovering their limitations. Conversely, neural methods have proven their usefulness for linguistics time and again.
To what extent are these traditions truly divorced, and what fruitful bridges can be (re)built? To answer these questions, the third iteration of the workshop on Bridges and Gaps between Formal and Computational Linguistics (BriGap-3) intends to provide a space for formal linguists, computational linguists, and NLP scientists to exchange their perspectives on how their different domains of research can build upon one another.

### Event topics
- investigation of the linguistic properties of machine learning models,
- linguistic representations, vector space semantics, and their relations with theoretical concepts such as compositionality,
- use of information-theoretical and computational methods for linguistic inquiry,
- formal distributional semantics and neural-symbolic integration for NLP,
- formal grammars, symbolic structures and their applications for computational linguistics and NLP,
- trends in the history of computational linguistics and NLP,
- …

### Invited speakers
- Raquel FERNÁNDEZ, Universiteit van Amsterdam
- Tal LINZEN, New York University (to be confirmed)

### Submission details
The event accepts both archival (original and unpublished research) submissions in either short (up to 4 pages) or long (up to 8 pages) format, and non-archival (work-in-progress, dissemination of research published or accepted elsewhere, etc.) submissions in short (up to 4 pages) format. Camera-ready versions of papers will be given one additional page of content so that reviewers’ comments can be taken into account.
Each submission should mention whether it targets archival or non-archival status. Archival papers accepted at BriGap-3 will be indexed in the ACL Anthology.
Please use the ACL style templates available here: [https://github.com/acl-org/acl-style-files](https://github.com/acl-org/acl-style-files)  
The submissions need to be done in PDF format via OpenReview, using the following link: [link](https://openreview.net/group?id=BriGap/2026/Workshop)  
Please be aware that to submit on OpenReview, you need an OpenReview profile, and that the activation process might take up to two weeks (in case you do not use an institutional email).

While it is often syntactically correct and coherent to some extent, the text produced by current generative AI systems falls below our expectations in terms of depth, clarity, and precision. Conceptual clarity and argumentation will be key criteria in the evaluation of submissions. We therefore **strongly** discourage the use of AI systems.  
In addition, the detection of any hallucinations in a submission (whether in the bibliography or elsewhere) will lead to rejection, regardless of the other qualities of the text.

As mentionned above, the camera-ready version allows one additional page to address reviewers' comments.
That is, short and long papers may be up to 5-page and 9-page long respectively.

### Important dates
- Submission deadline: Monday, April 27th, 2026, (23:59 AoE)
- Notification of acceptance: Monday, May 11th 2026
- Camera-ready deadline (for archival submisions only): Thursday, June 11th 2026, (23:59 AoE)
- Event: Saturday, July 11th, 2026

### Contact
The event chairs are:
- Timothée Bernard, Université Paris Cité,
- Emmanuele Chersoni, Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
- Giulia Rambelli, Università di Bologna.

They can be reached via __brigapworkshop@gmail.com__.

### Program Committee
- Pascal Amsili
- Giosue Baggio
- Philippe Blache
- Sacha Beniamine
- Canaan Breiss
- Lisa Bylinina
- Marie Candito
- Yan Cong
- Benoît Crabbé
- Juan Luis Gastaldi
- Yu-yin Hsu
- Hai Hu
- Dan Lassiter
- Alessandro Lenci
- Timothee Mickus
- Filip Miletic
- Koji Mineshima
- Ludovica Pannitto
- Chiara Paolini
- Denis Paperno
- Vered Shwartz
- Ece Takmaz
- Grégoire Winterstein
- Guillaume Wisniewski
- Olga Zamaraeva
- He Zhou
- (more to be announced)

## Support
The BriGap-3 workshop is funded by [RT LIFT2](https://gdr-lift.loria.fr/), [LLF](http://www.llf.cnrs.fr/en), and [InIdEx EFL](https://efl.u-pariscite.fr/).

More on the [About page](about.md).

Commit message:

Tal Linzen online + no mention of LLMs

2026/index.md, after:

---
layout: default_2026
---

# BriGap-3, Bridges and Gaps between Formal and Computational Linguistics

**Venue:** Université Paris Cité, [campus des Grands moulins](https://u-paris.fr/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/PlanB5_PRG_0922.pdf), Paris, France  
**Date:** July 11th, 2026  
**Event website:** [https://brigap-workshop.github.io/](https://brigap-workshop.github.io/)

_BriGap-3 is a venue for formal linguists, computational linguists, and NLP scientists to meet: what fruitful interactions can we have? How do we build upon each other’s work?_

**The event is designed with a widely inclusive submission policy so as to foster as vibrant a discussion as possible.**  
In particular, we will accept:
- **Archival submissions,** corresponding to novel and unpublished research, to be included in the event proceedings,
- **Non-archival submissions,** corresponding to work in progress and early results,
- **Dissemination submissions,** articles presented in other venues that engage with the topics of the event.

### Description
Due to the groundbreaking achievements in the last decade, the ongoing discourse in NLP has shifted more to what can be achieved through language than studying language for its own sake, and traditional conferences are increasingly dominated by engineering-oriented work. It could thus appear that computational and formal linguistics are more than ever separate domains.
Yet, we are also witnessing a growing interest in linguistics in both explaining the successes of neural models and uncovering their limitations. Conversely, all kinds of computational methods have proven their usefulness for linguistics time and again.
To what extent are these traditions truly divorced, and what fruitful bridges can be (re)built? To answer these questions, the third iteration of the workshop on Bridges and Gaps between Formal and Computational Linguistics (BriGap-3) intends to provide a space for formal linguists, computational linguists, and NLP scientists to exchange their perspectives on how their different domains of research can build upon one another.

### Event topics
- investigation of the linguistic properties of machine learning models,
- linguistic representations, vector space semantics, and their relations with theoretical concepts such as compositionality,
- use of information-theoretical and computational methods for linguistic inquiry,
- formal distributional semantics and neural-symbolic integration for NLP,
- formal grammars, symbolic structures and their applications for computational linguistics and NLP,
- trends in the history of computational linguistics and NLP,
- …

### Invited speakers
- Raquel FERNÁNDEZ, Universiteit van Amsterdam
- Tal LINZEN, New York University (online)

### Submission details
The event accepts both archival (original and unpublished research) submissions in either short (up to 4 pages) or long (up to 8 pages) format, and non-archival (work-in-progress, dissemination of research published or accepted elsewhere, etc.) submissions in short (up to 4 pages) format. Camera-ready versions of papers will be given one additional page of content so that reviewers’ comments can be taken into account.
Each submission should mention whether it targets archival or non-archival status. Archival papers accepted at BriGap-3 will be indexed in the ACL Anthology.
Please use the ACL style templates available here: [https://github.com/acl-org/acl-style-files](https://github.com/acl-org/acl-style-files)  
The submissions need to be done in PDF format via OpenReview, using the following link: [link](https://openreview.net/group?id=BriGap/2026/Workshop)  
Please be aware that to submit on OpenReview, you need an OpenReview profile, and that the activation process might take up to two weeks (in case you do not use an institutional email).

While it is often syntactically correct and coherent to some extent, the text produced by current generative AI systems falls below our expectations in terms of depth, clarity, and precision. Conceptual clarity and argumentation will be key criteria in the evaluation of submissions. We therefore **strongly** discourage the use of AI systems.  
In addition, the detection of any hallucinations in a submission (whether in the bibliography or elsewhere) will lead to rejection, regardless of the other qualities of the text.

As mentionned above, the camera-ready version allows one additional page to address reviewers' comments.
That is, short and long papers may be up to 5-page and 9-page long respectively.

### Important dates
- Submission deadline: Monday, April 27th, 2026, (23:59 AoE)
- Notification of acceptance: Monday, May 11th 2026
- Camera-ready deadline (for archival submisions only): Thursday, June 11th 2026, (23:59 AoE)
- Event: Saturday, July 11th, 2026

### Contact
The event chairs are:
- Timothée Bernard, Université Paris Cité,
- Emmanuele Chersoni, Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
- Giulia Rambelli, Università di Bologna.

They can be reached via __brigapworkshop@gmail.com__.

### Program Committee
- Pascal Amsili
- Giosue Baggio
- Philippe Blache
- Sacha Beniamine
- Canaan Breiss
- Lisa Bylinina
- Marie Candito
- Yan Cong
- Benoît Crabbé
- Juan Luis Gastaldi
- Yu-yin Hsu
- Hai Hu
- Dan Lassiter
- Alessandro Lenci
- Timothee Mickus
- Filip Miletic
- Koji Mineshima
- Ludovica Pannitto
- Chiara Paolini
- Denis Paperno
- Vered Shwartz
- Ece Takmaz
- Grégoire Winterstein
- Guillaume Wisniewski
- Olga Zamaraeva
- He Zhou
- (more to be announced)

## Support
The BriGap-3 workshop is funded by [RT LIFT2](https://gdr-lift.loria.fr/), [LLF](http://www.llf.cnrs.fr/en), and [InIdEx EFL](https://efl.u-pariscite.fr/).

More on the [About page](about.md).
